<h3>Chapter 4</h3> <br>
When we are conceived we get a lot of different genes from our parents. Some people are tall, short, midget, disproportioned, or so on. The genes are the biochemical units of heredity that make up chromosomes. After conception, the sperm maneuvers its way into an opening for an egg to be fertilized. For each boy and girl, they have 46 chromosomes from the parents. Chromosomes are threadlike structures made of DNA molecules that contain the genes. Sometimes people are born with more than 46 chromosomes and they are diagnosed with Down Syndrome. They are always so happy and carefree! When the sperm is fertilized the egg can split into two, three, or four embryos. They are identical twins, fraternal twins, triplets, quadruplets, and quintuplets. It is possible that these organisms can look the same or different. Specifically, for identical twins, they develop from a single fertilized egg that splits into two, creating two identical organisms. Fraternal twins develop from separate fertilized eggs and they do not look the same like identical. They look like they can be normal siblings but they aren&#34;, they were developed in a prenatal environment. Some people cannot have children and like Faith Hill and Steve Jobs, they adopted! There are different reasons why people cannot have kids but that is another time. If there is a lot interaction between hereditary and environment the effects of each depends on each other. 
       
 	In this chapter, we will be learning about behavior genetics. Behavior genetics is the study of the relative power and limits of genetic and environmental influences on behavior. This leads into the nature vs nurture debate. Is abusive behavior learned or is it already inside of you waiting for it to come out? Let&#34;s look into DNA. Deoxyribonucleic acid found by Watson and Crick in 1948, is a complex molecule that contains the genetic information that makes up the chromosomes. 
	Some people are influenced to have a high or low temperament (nurture). Some people develop low/high temperament from normal genetics. For my dad and I, I look like him. If I was a guy, I would be him. Sometimes, my grandparents call me Joe but I think it is because my dad passed away and they are trying to get me to live like him. 
	Next, is natural selection and mutation. Darwin introduced this concept when he was 22 years old! He believed that among the range of inherited trait variations, those contributing to reproduction and survival will most likely be passed on to succeeding generations. Mutation is when there is a random error in gene replication. For example, in &#34;he Fly&#34;, Brundle was able to transport a dog through his transporter but the dog came out inside out and it mutated. That is a random error in gene replication. Another error could be instead of a cloned sheep, there is an error where the horns are growing out of its ribs instead of his head. 
	
