Death of a Salesman Performance Critique
Word Count: 700
Dustin Hoffman
John Malkovich
Stephen Lang
Kate Reid

	I read &#39;Death of a Salesman&#39; in my Theatre I class in high school and it made me experience a range of different emotions from sadness to a feeling of belonging.  Like many movies that go straight to Television instead of the cinema, we look down upon them. I did the same exact thing when I started to watch this movie. Dustin Hoffman makes you feel the sadness and anger that Willy Loman is experiencing in his life. When you watch this movie, you forget that you are watching a film but experiencing a play. 
	Willy Loman comes home exhausted from a trip and his wife greets him. If the audience member read the play, then we would know that once he drove off the bridge. In my opinion, I feel like that was a suicide attempt that went wrong because he was saved. His life is falling apart and he becomes very depressed. To avoid any future accidents, his wife suggests to ask his boss to get him a non-traveling career instead. Their two sons are there visiting and Willy is filled with disappointment for both of them. 
	Kate Reid does a commendable job as an actress while playing Linda. She is able to perform as a caring wife who is aware of her husband&#39;s faults and Biff&#39;s shortcomings. I feel like this is similar to my family because of how unconditional my mom&#39;s love is for us kids. She will love us no matter what we are doing even if she disagrees. She is very level headed and not many people would be able to do that after watching the decline of her husband. She realizes that her husband was not very well and is the most emotional levelheaded in the story.  I do not feel like Linda is able to have unconditional love because her family&#39;s distress and chaos is in her face but somehow she does. Willy was so focused on the American dream that he left his wife alone and troubled. 
       Biff is at a time in his life where he is worn out and bothered by his own problems. He is not confident in his work. His family is almost the cause of that because of the family dynamic in the home. Happy is like the &#39;perfect&#39; son who doesn&#39;t have many problems in life but he is aware of his father&#39;s declining health. 
	Dustin took the character of Willy and changed into something believable. When I read the play, I did not particularly like the character of Willy but Dustin&#39;s take of Austin Miller&#39;s character made him come alive. It was a perfect combination of a senile but witty old man. Willy is constantly talking to himself and always doing things that puts himself or others at risk. Dustin had to play a character that was very difficult to deal with. At one moment, he is praising Biff and then bashing him as the laziest person alive. He was like this towards his car, his son, his house, and etc. Mental illnesses should be taken very seriously and Willy being depressed is something that should be taken seriously. Doubts and anxiety towards yourself and your life should be looked at by a professional, something that Willy will probably not want to do. He wants to live the American Dream but so many things are hindering that dream. Just like the home that was surrounded by apartments. The home was like the dream home for Willy and Linda but soon after a while it was surrounded by other&#39;s people&#39;s &#39;successes&#39; that it made Willy uncomfortable. He cannot live in a stable reality and it is obvious to his family and friends. When he wants to hang himself, Linda and Happy do nothing as Biff is the one who confronts his problem. 
	John Malkovich has always done weird characters in the past and him performing as this character is not out of his alley. He is always wanting to try something or follow a dream that he has at that moment but doesn&#39;t follow through. He wants to buy a ranch and run it with Happy but like all of Biff&#39;s dreams, they attune to nothing. Even though, Biff was the favorite to Willy in his childhood it ended up not mattering. Willy is fixed on the fact that Biff has wasted his life and constantly badgers him about it. John does a fantastic job relaying Biff&#39;s personality on the screen. Biff&#39;s identity crisis is something that John relays perfectly. When confronting his father about the &#39;truth&#39;, Biff is able to confront the fact that everyone is living a fantasy. He confronts his father that he was a failure because of the fact of being filled with hot air from him. 
	Willy denies that it was his fault and continues to say that he wants to hang himself. Dustin makes me filled with so much heartache for Willy. I understand the feeling that he is feeling. We all have been through hardship and internal destruction. Dustin Hoffman does a fantastic job with the character and it is so believable. 
	Happy is the least favorite son in the house. Willy is so focused on Biff that Happy feels like that he has to agree with everything his father says to get his love. He sees that his father is dealing with these delusions but does nothing. They are living in a fantasy. I do not feel like Stephen Lang was a very good fit for this character because he reminds me of Lennie from &#39;Of Mice and Men&#39;- a big oaf that is just there and not able to think for himself.
	When Willy commits suicide, he left the insurance money for his family so that they can live better than what they had before so Biff doesn&#39;t have to work while Happy is trying so hard to be like his father that he also considers suicide. He believes that no matter what he does it will never make his father happy. Kevin Lang does a fantastic job with this role even though he is not my favorite character in this movie. I do feel connected to every one of these characters at different points. Sometimes I do feel like I am not living up to my parents&#39; standards. I also feel like I am lazy and I don&#39;t want to work. I also understand the feeling of chasing an impossible dream and I do understand how Linda felt when she realized that her husband was on a path of self-destruction. This was a wonderful story. 
