Prologue Chapter Summary\n
Key Terms\n
Structuralism
Functionalism
Behaviorism
Humanistic Psychology
Cognitive Neuroscience
Psychology
Nature-Nurture Issue
Natural Selection
Evolutionary Psychology
Culture
      William Wundt was considered the &#39;father of psychology.&#39; This German psychologist created an experimental apparatus that measured the time lag between people hearing a ball drop and pressing a telegraph key. This was the first psychology lab created and it gave an opportunity to introduce new concepts; structuralism and functionalism. Structuralism used introspection to reveal the structure of the human mind and functionalism explored how mental and behavioral processes function. Wundt- the father of psychology and Titchener- a man who was puzzled over how a mind was structured, both were interested in introspection and how an experienced formed their mind&#39;s structure. After a while, Functionalism became the new craze when Charles Darwin and William James suggested a new concept of psychology- why do our body parts do the things they do? Eyes involuntary blink, a nose involuntary smells, and a brain thinks. Darwin and James suggested it was adaptive from ancestors&#39; survival instincts and consciousness of ourselves in the past, present, and future. 
      Behaviorism was introduced by Watson, Rayner, Skinner, and Sigmund Freud. Behaviorism is the view that psychology should be an objective science that studies behavior without reference to mental processes. Watson and Rayner declared in the &#39;Little Albert&#39; experiment showed that fear can be learned. While Skinner experimented using a rat and conditioned using consequences. Sigmund Freud studied personality, sexual conflicts while unconscious, and mind&#39;s defenses of wishes and desires. Carl Rogers and Abraham Maslow introduced the theory of nature vs nurture and how it effects growth potential. The environment is extremely important when dealing with humanistic psychology. Humanistic psychology is significant perspective that emphasized human growth potential.  It introduces ways that a positive or negative environment can help or hinder growth. Maslow created a Hierarchy to exemplify the importance of having love and acceptance.  
      Fast forward to the 1960&#39;s, the psychologists focused back onto mental processes due to many new patients coming in with depression or other things like that.  Cognitive neuroscience is the interdisciplinary study of the brain activity linked with cognition (including perception, thinking, memory, and language). This interdisciplinary approach studies brain activity and helps treat hormonal imbalances like depression. Psychology is the science of behavior and mental processes but not everyone is on the same page on what answers the complete question on why we think the way we do or how our brain processes information. Another possible answer is the nature vs nurture debate that dates back in ancient times. Plato and Aristotle are on opposite ends of the debate. Plato suggests that we inherit our knowledge, personality, and intelligence. Aristotle believes that we are born with a blank slate and we are taught things instead of knowing them already. The Nature-Nurture issue is the longstanding controversy over the relative contribution that genes and experiences make to the development of psychological traits and behaviors. Right now we see both traits and behaviors coming from both nature and nurture. When a child is abused the child will more likely abuse their children because they were conditioned and nurtured to act that way. 
      Charles Darwin gets back into the picture proposing the evolutionary process of natural selection. It is the principle that among the range of inherited trait variations, those contributing to reproduction and survival will most likely be passed on to succeeding generations. The weaker animal or the weaker human will die and the strongest will succeed. Evolutionary Psychology is the study of the evolution of behavior and the mind, using principles of natural selection.  Nature selects traits that enable the organism a chance to more likely survive. Darwin&#39;s idea of natural selection and evolutionary psychology helps explain why a polar bear has a white coat instead of black or how a chameleon is able to change colors to get away from predators. 
      Culture shapes behavior and influences decisions and our personalities. Culture is the enduring behaviors, ideas, attitudes, values, and traditions shared by a group of people and transmitted from one generation to the next. It shows why we are polite or religious. It is all because of culture! No matter what your culture is, we are all considered a &#39;universal human family&#39; because we all have similar genetics. Loneliness still happens even if you are from Japan or the United States. Depression, ADHD, etc will affect everyone in this world. 

